hi everyone this is bobbi from being
Gamescom and we're here doing our first
episode of our new series which we are
calling unknown values the unknown value
series is going to be dedicated to tips
tricks secrets
codes and gameshark codes and glitches
the game short codes you might have
noticed is the inspiration for our new
intro and today we're going to start off
with the granddaddy code the probably
the most famous code of all time the
konami code so the question I have to
ask today is what is the Konami code
just a short history for our younger
viewers the Konami code is a nickname
that was given to a special input
sequence originally used in Konami
developed games for the Nintendo
Entertainment System the code shown
above is the original input sequence
that being up up down down left right
left right B a start the code has taken
various forms on different platforms and
has been integrated into the modern
lexicon as a sort of tribute and symbol
to anyone for remembers using the code
during the NES console generation the
Konami code was first used in the game
Gradius released in 1986
when pausing the game entering the code
sequence enables ship weapons that
otherwise would need to be activated by
collecting power-ups for fallen enemies
the original Gradius is not the only
game in the series to contain this same
cheat the superb 2004 release of gradius
5 on the PlayStation 2 would see the
same cheat implemented with the
exception that l1 and r1 would need to
be used instead of be an A in the code
sequence
you
the Konami code would only truly ingrain
itself in gaming culture with the
release of contra for the Nintendo
Entertainment System in 1988
Concha cemented itself as one of the
most difficult games to complete on the
end yes the code sequence one entered at
the title screen would give the player
30 additional lives instead of the
anemic three given to the player when
starting the game without the code
30 lives instead of three lives at the
beginning of the game made all the
difference in the world the Konami code
was not restricted to one console
manufacturer as with konami x' release
of Castlevania bloodlines on the Sega
Genesis
we saw the code used to enable expert
mode at the title screen
the Konami code is not exclusive to
Konami published titles alone
as stated before many other developers
in gaming and various other development
disciplines have integrated forms of the
original sequence into their work the
Super Nintendo version of Mortal Kombat
3 for example had two special main menus
that were enabled by either entering a
version of the Konami code at the main
menu in its original sequence or
entering it backwards to enable a second
secret menu as I touched on earlier the
Konami code has found its way into other
types software the Palm Pre smartphone
for example required that the entire
sequence be spelled out to enable
developer mode which also enabled the
use of homebrew software and development
tools well there you have it a brief
history and explanation of what the
Konami code is it continues to be we
hope you enjoyed this episode of the
unknown value series we will continue to
release episodes soon please subscribe
and let us know what you think thank you